# Intro

Include `vimium` browse plugin.

``` shell
# editorconfig
ln -s ~/dotfiles/misc/editorconfig ~/.editorconfig
# aria2
ln -s ~/dotfiles/misc/aria2.conf ~/.aria2/aria2.conf
# youtube-dl
ln -s ~/dotfiles/misc/youtube-dl.conf ~/.config/youtube-dl/config
# screen
ln -s ~/dotfiles/misc/screenrc ~/.screenrc
```

## mysql

When install `mysql` from homebrew, execute `mysql` directly there will be an
error if you had set password before but forgot:

    ERROR 1045 (28000): Access denied for user 'root'@'localhost' (using password: NO)

To solve this problem, you need to reset the root password then `mysql -uroot -p`.

### How to Reset the Root Password

If you have never assigned a root password for MySQL, the server does not
require a password at all for connecting as root. However, this is insecure. For
instructions on assigning a password, see Section 2.10.4, “Securing the Initial
MySQL Account”.

If you know the root password and want to change it, see Section 13.7.1.1,
“ALTER USER Statement”, and Section 13.7.1.10, “SET PASSWORD Statement”.

If you assigned a root password previously but have forgotten it, you can assign
a new password. The following sections provide instructions for Windows and Unix
and Unix-like systems, as well as generic instructions that apply to any system.

#### Resetting the Root Password: Windows Systems

On Windows, use the following procedure to reset the password for the MySQL
'root'@'localhost' account. To change the password for a root account with a
different host name part, modify the instructions to use that host name.

Log on to your system as Administrator.

Stop the MySQL server if it is running. For a server that is running as a
Windows service, go to the Services manager: From the Start menu, select Control
Panel, then Administrative Tools, then Services. Find the MySQL service in the
list and stop it.

If your server is not running as a service, you may need to use the Task Manager
to force it to stop.

Create a text file containing the password-assignment statement on a single
line. Replace the password with the password that you want to use.

ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'MyNewPass'; Save the file. This
example assumes that you name the file C:\mysql-init.txt.

Open a console window to get to the command prompt: From the Start menu, select
Run, then enter cmd as the command to be run.

Start the MySQL server with the init_file system variable set to name the file
(notice that the backslash in the option value is doubled):

    C:\> cd "C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 8.0\bin"
    C:\> mysqld --init-file=C:\\mysql-init.txt

If you installed MySQL to a different location, adjust the cd command
accordingly.

The server executes the contents of the file named by the init_file system
variable at startup, changing the 'root'@'localhost' account password.

To have server output to appear in the console window rather than in a log file,
add the --console option to the mysqld command.

If you installed MySQL using the MySQL Installation Wizard, you may need to
specify a --defaults-file option. For example:

    C:\> mysqld
         --defaults-file="C:\\ProgramData\\MySQL\\MySQL Server 8.0\\my.ini"
         --init-file=C:\\mysql-init.txt

The appropriate --defaults-file setting can be found using the Services Manager:
From the Start menu, select Control Panel, then Administrative Tools, then
Services. Find the MySQL service in the list, right-click it, and choose the
Properties option. The Path to executable field contains the --defaults-file
setting.

After the server has started successfully, delete C:\mysql-init.txt.

You should now be able to connect to the MySQL server as root using the new
password. Stop the MySQL server and restart it normally. If you run the server
as a service, start it from the Windows Services window. If you start the server
manually, use whatever command you normally use.

#### Resetting the Root Password: Unix and Unix-Like Systems

On Unix, use the following procedure to reset the password for the MySQL
'root'@'localhost' account. To change the password for a root account with a
different host name part, modify the instructions to use that host name.

The instructions assume that you start the MySQL server from the Unix login
account that you normally use for running it. For example, if you run the server
using the mysql login account, you should log in as mysql before using the
instructions. Alternatively, you can log in as root, but in this case you must
start mysqld with the --user=mysql option. If you start the server as root
without using --user=mysql, the server may create root-owned files in the data
directory, such as log files, and these may cause permission-related problems
for future server startups. If that happens, you must either change the
ownership of the files to mysql or remove them.

Log on to your system as the Unix user that the MySQL server runs as (for
example, mysql).

Stop the MySQL server if it is running. Locate the .pid file that contains the
server's process ID. The exact location and name of this file depend on your
distribution, host name, and configuration. Common locations are
/var/lib/mysql/, /var/run/mysqld/, and /usr/local/mysql/data/. Generally, the
file name has an extension of .pid and begins with either mysqld or your
system's host name.

Stop the MySQL server by sending a normal kill (not kill -9) to the mysqld
process. Use the actual path name of the .pid file in the following command:

    shell> kill `cat /mysql-data-directory/host_name.pid`

Use backticks (not forward quotation marks) with the cat command. These cause
the output of cat to be substituted into the kill command.

Create a text file containing the password-assignment statement on a single
line. Replace the password with the password that you want to use.

    ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'MyNewPass';

Save the file. This example assumes that you name the file
/home/me/mysql-init. The file contains the password, so do not save it where it
can be read by other users. If you are not logged in as mysql (the user the
server runs as), make sure that the file has permissions that permit mysql to
read it.

Start the MySQL server with the init_file system variable set to name the file:

    shell> mysqld --init-file=/home/me/mysql-init &

The server executes the contents of the file named by the init_file system
variable at startup, changing the 'root'@'localhost' account password.

Other options may be necessary as well, depending on how you normally start your
server. For example, --defaults-file may be needed before the init_file
argument.

After the server has started successfully, delete /home/me/mysql-init.

You should now be able to connect to the MySQL server as root using the new
password. Stop the server and restart it normally.

#### Resetting the Root Password: Generic Instructions

The preceding sections provide password-resetting instructions specifically for
Windows and Unix and Unix-like systems. Alternatively, on any platform, you can
reset the password using the mysql client (but this approach is less secure):

Stop the MySQL server if necessary, then restart it with the --skip-grant-tables
option. This enables anyone to connect without a password and with all
privileges, and disables account-management statements such as ALTER USER and
SET PASSWORD. Because this is insecure, if the server is started with the
--skip-grant-tables option, it also disables remote connections by enabling
skip_networking.

Connect to the MySQL server using the mysql client; no password is necessary
because the server was started with --skip-grant-tables:

    shell> mysql

In the mysql client, tell the server to reload the grant tables so that
account-management statements work:

    mysql> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;

Then change the 'root'@'localhost' account password. Replace the password with
the password that you want to use. To change the password for a root account
with a different host name part, modify the instructions to use that host name.

    mysql> ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'MyNewPass';

You should now be able to connect to the MySQL server as root using the new
password. Stop the server and restart it normally (without the
--skip-grant-tables option and without enabling the skip_networking system
variable).
